# semester-project

The power train of a trolley bus in Zurich consists traditionally of one electric motor with overhead wire for energy source and one diesel engine with limited engine power for emergency (electricity black out or short distance without overhead wire). Due to the several disadvantages of the diesel engine (no peaking load shaving, low usage rate during the bus operation time, local exhaust gas and noise emission, no recuperation of braking energy), a novel trolley bus power train structure with a battery package instead of a diesel engine was introduced in this semester project. The potential of the trolley bus networks with such batteries mainly in peak load shaving was analyzed. By solving the optimal control problem using the Pontryagin minimum principle, the total energy consumption and peak load of the bus network could be reduced with the help of the battery. Depending on the amount of the battery trolley buses in the bus network and different energy management strategies, the different reducing effects could be realized, which show some kind of trade off between the energy reduction and peak load reduction. The simulations showed the peak load of a 10-bus-network with one battery package could already be reduced by 20%, compared to a 10-bus-network without battery. Moreover, a pure battery-bus-network with optimal energy management strategies can reduce the peak load by around 70% compared to a 10-bus-network without battery.

My main contribution regarding the programming work in MATLAB was the object-oriented modelling of batteries systems, the implementation of Pontryagin Minimum Principle and simulation of different bus network operation scenarios.

semester project
